In this lesson we're going to add another feature to our
application that allows users to choose any question
as favorite
question
So a user could be favorite more than one question.
On the other hand a question could be
favorited by more than one user.
So for this situation we're going to implement many to many relationship which in database perspective
requires us to provide intermediate table or pivot table
that will store both id of the question and id  of
the user. For example here
let's visualize the users table
let's say we have Andy and Bob and then let's also
visualize the questions table and let's say we have
Question 1 and Question 2
Now let's say Andy favorite  the question 1. In our
database we can store it in pivot table and we can
call it question_user which contains user ID and question ID.
And here we can store the relationship like this.
Now let's say Bob
favorites Question 1 and Question 2. In our pivot table
We can store that relationship like this.
So here we know that Andy who has id one favorites question 1. Bob who has id 2 favorites question 1 and
question 2.
And we also know that question 1 favorited by andy and
bob and question 2 favorited by Bob.
Now the question is how can we do that
in our application?
Don't worry because laravel has provide a simple
and elegant way to do that and I'll show you that later
in this lesson.
All right I hope that will make sense to you at least in the debates prospective.
Now let's implement this many to many relationship to
build up a favorite feature in our application.
Let's go ahead and open our terminal and
create new branch by saying git check out -b
lesson-21
Now we are in branch lesson 21 and we can start build
out our favorite feature by firstly create new
migration.
So here we can say: php artisan make migration
And then the migration name is going to be create
and here I'll call the table as favorites instead of question
underscore user because I think favorites
is more descriptive than question underscore
user
All right let's switch to our editor and open create_favorites_table
here
the Increment id is not necessary so keep it or remove it
is not a big deal.
In my case I'll remove this column.
Now let's define two columns that will store user ID and
question id as I show you in the beginning.
So here we are going to say table unsigned integer
user id
and then table unsigned integer
question id
here
I will not define foreign key  constrain for this table
So it's no problem whether I use integer or unsigned
integer for both columns but I think it's better to use
unsigned integer because id of the user and id of the
question will never has negative number and here
let's keep these time stamp
and last;y let's prevent duplicate same user id and
question id in the database layer by saying table unique
and then pass an array contains user id and question id.
So if we had user id one and then question one and
then if we tried to insert the same records then
it will not be inserted.
OK that's it
Now let's save the changes and run this migration
php artisan migrate
all right the create favorite table has been migrated successfully.
Now we can go to our model and define the relationships
let's firtly open up the user model.
As I said before that a user could be favorites more than one question
so here we'll call it favorites in plural
and to represent many to many relationship in this model we need to return this belongs to many. Pass in
the question model
and then because we named our table as favorites
So here we didn't specify in the second argument the table name which in this case favorites
or let me show it to you. Here
I'll remove the second argument
and then I'll have the changes.
Now let me open tinker
and here I'll find the first user by saying `u` app user first
and then I'll call `u`
favorites
as you can see here I get error.
It's hard to read actually so let me copy there
in here
I'll paste in my text editor so that you can see that.
So as you can see here eloquent will assume that the
pivot table as question_user. The name is derived from
the alphabetical order of the related model names
question and user model.
So that's why here we need to specify in a
second argument with the table name
I'll save the change and let me go back to thinker
And here I need to quit to see the change
and I'll do the same step as before
and now there's no error here.
Now here you can also specify in the third argument
the foreign key name of the model like this user
id and then specify the foreign key name of the model that you are joining to in the forth argument like so.
But since we're follow the convention
user_id column to reference id of the users table
and question id column to reference id of the
questions table
so both these can be omitted.
So as you can see in the previous error that we got eloquent
recognized that the foreign key name question id and
user id. But just in case you are not following the convention
let's say you have author_id instead of user_id then
you need to explicitly specify in a third argument
as author_id
and you can do the same thing in the fourth argument.
Now lets open the question model
and when we can do the same thing as we did in user model
public function favorites
and in here we can return this belongs to many
pass in the User class in the first argument
and the table name in the second argument.
You can specify the foreign key in the third and
fourth argument like this question Id user id.
But again since we are follow the convention they are optional.
All right let's save all changes
and now let's see how this many to many relationship work.